# BRIC

BRIC(Biclustering-based gene Regulation Inference and Cell-type prediction) is a novel biclustering method for the detection of the repertoire of active gene regulatory signals(GRSs) within each single cell, based on which, we annotate the type and/or physiological state of each cell. The theoretically foundation of BRIC is that the determining factors of the type or physiological state of a cell is its transcriptional regulatory states, on both epi-genetic and cis-regulatory level, and that the observed gene expression profile in a single cell is dictated by all the GRSs. Therefore, the outcome of each GRS forms a distinguishable bicluster structure, i.e. a gene module co-regulated by the GRS presented in a subset of cells. Specifically, the cohort of active GRS can be comprehensively identified through biclustering analysis on a scRNA-seq experiment, and the active status of the GRS in each cell form direct evidence for cell type annotation.

BRIC consists of two major steps: (i) detecting all gene co-regulation modules (GCM) each corresponding to a GRS, and (ii) inferring the active GRS of each cell, and further its cell type or physiological state. Step (i) first utilized our in-house left truncated mixture Gaussian (LTMG) model for an accurate quantification of the sample specific GRS for each individual gene, where a “suppressed” regulation state was considered to cover lowly expressed genes and dropout events. Step (ii) utilized the set of active states of GRS within a cell for its cell type prediction. We hypothesize that cells of a same type tend to share more common active GRS. With a comprehensive identification of the GRS-specific GCM, the similarity between two cells is measured by the number of common GRSs shared by them, based on which a Markov Clustering model is applied to cluster the cells.

The program of BRIC consists of two part, one is biclustering and the other one is cell type prediction. For biclustering, C++ code is provided. The input in this part is expression matrix and the output is .blocks file, in which each block represent a bicluster. Detailed usage of biclustering can be find in the README file. For cell type prediction part, two R scripts are provided. Users should first run the constructGraph.R to generate weighted graph. The input here is the .blocks files output in the biclustering step, and the output is weighted graphs. Then users could run MCL_clustering.R to group cells based on the weighted graph. Note that MCL is just one clustering choice,users may use other clustering methods.
